README.md, before:

## Table of Contents
* [Specifications](#specifications)
* [grammatek/g2p-lstm](#grammatekg2p-lstm)
* [cadia-lvl/tts-data](#cadia-lvltts_data)
* [atliSig/g2p](#atlisigg2p)
* [rkjaran/g2p-service](#rkjarang2p-service)
* [grammatek/g2p-thrax](#grammatekg2p-thrax)
* [kaldi/egs/althingi/s5](#althingis5)
* [template](#template)

## Specifications
| Repo name | Toolkit | IPA or SAMPA | Details |
|-----------|---------|------------|---------|
| g2p-lstm | fairseq | SAMPA | [grammatek/g2p-lstm](#grammatekg2p-lstm) |
| tts-data | sequitur | IPA | [cadia-lvl/tts-data](#cadia-lvltts_data) |
| g2p | sequitur | IPA | [atliSig/g2p](#atlisigg2p) |
| g2p-service | sequitur | NA/IPA | [rkjaran/g2p-service](#rkjarang2p-service) |
| g2p-thrax | thrax | SAMPA | [grammatek/g2p-thrax](#grammatekg2p-thrax) |
| althingi | sequitur | IPA | [kaldi/egs/althingi/s5](#althingis5)

## [grammatek/g2p-lstm](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-lstm)
### Type:
fairseq lstm (python) models
SAMPA
#### Location:
the models are available in
[checkpoints](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-lstm/tree/master/checkpoints)
and [data-bin](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-lstm/tree/master/data-bin)

There are g2p models for Icelandic four main regional dialects: north,
northest, south, and standard(west).
#### Dependencies:
Install all dependencies with the following
`conda env create -f environment.yml`
#### Usage Example
Here's a usage example on the command line

```
$ cat example.txt
h l a u p a
d e r p
$ cat example.txt | ./transcribe_ice_standard \
 example_g2p_standard.out example_g2p_standard.tsv
$ cat example_g2p_standard.tsv
h l a u p a	l_0 9i: p a
d e r p	t E r_0 p
```

## [cadia-lvl/tts_data](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/tts_data)
#### Type:
Sequitur model
IPA
#### Location:
model available here:
[pron_data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/tts_data/blob/master/pron_data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl)
#### Dependencies: just do `pip3 install -r requirements`
#### Usage:
[tests/tests.py](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/tts_data/blob/master/tests/tests.py)
gives an example of to how to call it.
####  Example

input file:
`<phrase>tab<list-name>`
```
Mammon vor er alhreinn orðinn	althingi
forseti	althingi
```

output file:
`<phrase>tab<list-name>tab<phonemes>`
```
Mammon vor er alhreinn orðinn	althingi	~ m a m ɔ n	v ɔː r	ɛ r	aː l̥ r̥ ei t n̥	ɔ r ð ɪ n ~
forseti	althingi	~ f ɔ r̥ s ɛ t ɪ ~
```


## [atliSig/g2p](https://github.com/atliSig/g2p)
This model was used for creating tts data collection scripts and for training
unit selection voices by LVL.
#### Type
Sequitur model
IPA
#### Location
[https://github.com/atliSig/g2p/blob/master/data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl](https://github.com/atliSig/g2p/blob/master/data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl)
#### Dependencies:
They're all listed in
[requirements.txt](https://github.com/atliSig/g2p/blob/master/requirements.txt)
within the repo
#### Usage
```
    Input arguments:
    * src_path (str): The path to the file containing multiple
    utterances, one per line
    * out_path (str): The target path the the file that stores
    the results.
    * n_jobs (int): The maximum number of processes that can
    be used to execute the given calls.
    * contains_scores (bool): If True, each line in the input file
    is e.g. <sentence>\t<source_id>\t<score> else it is
    <sentence>\t<source_id>
    * translator_options (Options instance): Options passed onto g2p.Translator
```
#### Example

input - tsv file
```
Ég held að það sé ekki rétt orð, þetta komi ekkert almanakinu við.
Fréttirnar eru sko aldeilis dæmalausar.
Það var miði í póstkassanum.
Hann glennti fætur hennar í sundur og reyndi að þrengja sér inn í hárlaust skaut hennar.
Ég tel að þetta sé óskaplega mikil sóun á mannauði hjá einni þjóð.
Yfirverkfræðingur hjá Reykjavíkurborg segir að sökin liggi hjá ökumönnum.
Og nú átti sem sagt að hafa sama háttinn á gagnvart stúdentum hér við Háskólann.
Bæði almennt og sérstakt veiðigjald er lagt flatt sem föst krónutala á þorskígildiskíló.
Lesendur þurfa að fá tækifæri til að njóta hans.
```

output - tsv file

```
Ég held að það sé ekki rétt orð, þetta komi ekkert almanakinu við.	~ j ɛː ɣ	h ɛ l t	aː ð	θ aː ð	s j ɛː	ɛ h c ɪ	r j ɛ h t	ɔ r ð	θ ɛ h t a	kʰ ɔː m ɪ	ɛ h c ɛ r̥ t	a l m a n aː c ɪ n ʏ	v ɪː ð ~
Fréttirnar eru sko aldeilis dæmalausar.	~ f r j ɛ h t ɪ t n a r	ɛː r ʏ	s k ɔ	a l t ei l ɪ s	t aiː m a l œyː s a r ~
Það var miði í póstkassanum.	~ θ aː ð	v aː r	m ɪː ð ɪ	iː	pʰ ou s t k a s a n ʏ m ~
Hann glennti fætur hennar í sundur og reyndi að þrengja sér inn í hárlaust skaut hennar.	~ h a n	k l ɛ n̥ t ɪ	f aiː t ʏ r	h ɛ n a r	iː	s ʏ n t ʏ r	ɔː ɣ	r ei n t ɪ	aː ð	θ r ei ɲ c a	s j ɛː r	ɪ n	iː	h au r l œy s t	s k œyː t	h ɛ n a r ~
Ég tel að þetta sé óskaplega mikil sóun á mannauði hjá einni þjóð.	~ j ɛː ɣ	tʰ ɛː l	aː ð	θ ɛ h t a	s j ɛː	ouː s k a p l ɛ ɣ a	m ɪː c ɪ l	s ouː ʏ n	auː	m a n œy ð ɪ	ç au	ei t n ɪ	θ j ouː ð ~
Yfirverkfræðingur hjá Reykjavíkurborg segir að sökin liggi hjá ökumönnum.	~ ɪː v ɪ r v ɛ r̥ k f r ai ð i ŋ k ʏ r	ç au	r eiː c a v iː k ʏ r p ɔ r k	s ei j ɪ r	aː ð	s œː c ɪ n	l ɪ c ɪ	ç au	œː k ʏ m œ n ʏ m ~
Og nú átti sem sagt að hafa sama háttinn á gagnvart stúdentum hér við Háskólann.	~ ɔː ɣ	n uː	au h t ɪ	s ɛː m	s a x t	aː ð	h aː v a	s aː m a	h au h t ɪ n	auː	k a k v a r̥ t	s t uː t ɛ n̥ t ʏ m	ç ɛː r	v ɪː ð	h auː s k ou l a n ~
Bæði almennt og sérstakt veiðigjald er lagt flatt sem föst krónutala á þorskígildiskíló.	~ p aiː ð ɪ	a l m ɛ n̥ t	ɔː ɣ	s j ɛ r̥ s t a x t	v eiː ð ɪ c a l t	ɛ r	l a x t	f l a h t	s ɛː m	f œ s t	kʰ r ouː n ʏ tʰ aː l a	auː	θ ɔ r̥ s c i c ɪ l t ɪ s c i l ou ~
Lesendur þurfa að fá tækifæri til að njóta hans.	~ l ɛː s ɛ n t ʏ r	θ ʏ r v a	aː ð	f auː	tʰ aiː c ɪ f aiː r ɪ	tʰ ɪː l	aː ð	n j ouː t a	h a n s ~
```

## [rkjaran/g2p-service](https://github.com/rkjaran/g2p-service)
#### Type
sequitur wrapper

The endpoint is IPA but the repo is just whatever model type you put in.
#### Location
It doesn't come with a model but there's an endpoint:
[https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron/derp](https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron/derp)
#### Dependencies
Install via dockerfile
#### Usage
#### Example

single word
```
$ curl -XGET https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron/derp | jq
[
  {
    "results": [
      {
        "posterior": 0.9138450652404999,
        "pronunciation": "t ɛ r̥ p"
      }
    ],
    "word": "derp"
  }
]
```

Multiple word support with a POST.

    $ cat <<EOF | curl -XPOST -d@- https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron | jq
    {"words": ["herp", "derp"]}
    EOF
    [
      {
        "results": [
          {
            "posterior": 0.9251423160703962,
            "pronunciation": "h ɛ r̥ p"
          }
        ],
        "word": "herp"
      },
      {
        "results": [
          {
            "posterior": 0.9138450652404999,
            "pronunciation": "t ɛ r̥ p"
          }
        ],
        "word": "derp"
      }
    ]

Append `?t=tsv` to get the response in the Kaldi lexicon format.

`Hasler	1.0	h a s t l ɛ r`

## [grammatek/g2p-thrax](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-thrax)
#### Type
thrax - rule based
SAMPA
#### Location
need to build it yourself from the repo
#### Dependencies:
Thrax and OpenFST
#### Usage
It's a good idea to put thraxg2p in your path so you can use it from anywhere.
This uses x_sampa which means it's a one to one mapping of IPA to a ASCII only
transcription
#### Example
If you are getting the phonemes interactively from the project root directory,
```
$./build/thraxg2p --far=grammars/g2p.far
Input string: orð
Output string:  O r D
```

You can also pipe it in through stdin.

Doing file input and output
```
./build/thraxg2p --far=grammars/g2p.far --indir=temp \
 --word_file=temp/test.txt > temp/out/test.tsv
```

input file
```
derp
orð
```

output file
```
derp	t E r_0 p
orð	O r D
```

## [althingi/s5](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/kaldi/tree/master/egs/althingi/s5)
#### Type
sequitur
IPA
#### Location
There are no public models.
terra:/models/althingi
#### Dependencies:
sequitur-g2p
#### Usage
It's best to use this only for ASR, not TTS because it's not precise enough.

train a g2p model with
[local/train_g2p.sh](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/kaldi/blob/master/egs/althingi/s5/local/train_g2p.sh)

transcribe words with
[local/transcribe_g2p.sh](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/kaldi/blob/master/egs/althingi/s5/local/transcribe_g2p.sh)
#### Example
transcribing words
```
$ srun ./local/transcribe_g2p.sh /models/g2p/sequitur/althingi/g2p.mdl \
 temp/g2p_words.txt
derp	t ɛː r p
orð	ɔ r ð
stack usage:  200

```


## Template
Here's a template for adding new Icelandic g2p repos.
```
## repo link
#### Type
#### Location
#### Dependencies:
#### Usage
#### Example

input

output
```

Commit message:

Explain what this list is

README.md, after:

This is a list of existing g2p repos, directions on how to get the respective models, and how to use these models to get phonemes.

## Table of Contents
* [Specifications](#specifications)
* [grammatek/g2p-lstm](#grammatekg2p-lstm)
* [cadia-lvl/tts-data](#cadia-lvltts_data)
* [atliSig/g2p](#atlisigg2p)
* [rkjaran/g2p-service](#rkjarang2p-service)
* [grammatek/g2p-thrax](#grammatekg2p-thrax)
* [kaldi/egs/althingi/s5](#althingis5)
* [template](#template)

## Specifications
| Repo name | Toolkit | IPA or SAMPA | Details |
|-----------|---------|------------|---------|
| g2p-lstm | fairseq | SAMPA | [grammatek/g2p-lstm](#grammatekg2p-lstm) |
| tts-data | sequitur | IPA | [cadia-lvl/tts-data](#cadia-lvltts_data) |
| g2p | sequitur | IPA | [atliSig/g2p](#atlisigg2p) |
| g2p-service | sequitur | NA/IPA | [rkjaran/g2p-service](#rkjarang2p-service) |
| g2p-thrax | thrax | SAMPA | [grammatek/g2p-thrax](#grammatekg2p-thrax) |
| althingi | sequitur | IPA | [kaldi/egs/althingi/s5](#althingis5)

## [grammatek/g2p-lstm](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-lstm)
### Type:
fairseq lstm (python) models
SAMPA
#### Location:
the models are available in
[checkpoints](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-lstm/tree/master/checkpoints)
and [data-bin](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-lstm/tree/master/data-bin)

There are g2p models for Icelandic four main regional dialects: north,
northest, south, and standard(west).
#### Dependencies:
Install all dependencies with the following
`conda env create -f environment.yml`
#### Usage Example
Here's a usage example on the command line

```
$ cat example.txt
h l a u p a
d e r p
$ cat example.txt | ./transcribe_ice_standard \
 example_g2p_standard.out example_g2p_standard.tsv
$ cat example_g2p_standard.tsv
h l a u p a	l_0 9i: p a
d e r p	t E r_0 p
```

## [cadia-lvl/tts_data](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/tts_data)
#### Type:
Sequitur model
IPA
#### Location:
model available here:
[pron_data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/tts_data/blob/master/pron_data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl)
#### Dependencies: just do `pip3 install -r requirements`
#### Usage:
[tests/tests.py](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/tts_data/blob/master/tests/tests.py)
gives an example of to how to call it.
####  Example

input file:
`<phrase>tab<list-name>`
```
Mammon vor er alhreinn orðinn	althingi
forseti	althingi
```

output file:
`<phrase>tab<list-name>tab<phonemes>`
```
Mammon vor er alhreinn orðinn	althingi	~ m a m ɔ n	v ɔː r	ɛ r	aː l̥ r̥ ei t n̥	ɔ r ð ɪ n ~
forseti	althingi	~ f ɔ r̥ s ɛ t ɪ ~
```


## [atliSig/g2p](https://github.com/atliSig/g2p)
This model was used for creating tts data collection scripts and for training
unit selection voices by LVL.
#### Type
Sequitur model
IPA
#### Location
[https://github.com/atliSig/g2p/blob/master/data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl](https://github.com/atliSig/g2p/blob/master/data/ipd_clean_slt2018.mdl)
#### Dependencies:
They're all listed in
[requirements.txt](https://github.com/atliSig/g2p/blob/master/requirements.txt)
within the repo
#### Usage
```
    Input arguments:
    * src_path (str): The path to the file containing multiple
    utterances, one per line
    * out_path (str): The target path the the file that stores
    the results.
    * n_jobs (int): The maximum number of processes that can
    be used to execute the given calls.
    * contains_scores (bool): If True, each line in the input file
    is e.g. <sentence>\t<source_id>\t<score> else it is
    <sentence>\t<source_id>
    * translator_options (Options instance): Options passed onto g2p.Translator
```
#### Example

input - tsv file
```
Ég held að það sé ekki rétt orð, þetta komi ekkert almanakinu við.
Fréttirnar eru sko aldeilis dæmalausar.
Það var miði í póstkassanum.
Hann glennti fætur hennar í sundur og reyndi að þrengja sér inn í hárlaust skaut hennar.
Ég tel að þetta sé óskaplega mikil sóun á mannauði hjá einni þjóð.
Yfirverkfræðingur hjá Reykjavíkurborg segir að sökin liggi hjá ökumönnum.
Og nú átti sem sagt að hafa sama háttinn á gagnvart stúdentum hér við Háskólann.
Bæði almennt og sérstakt veiðigjald er lagt flatt sem föst krónutala á þorskígildiskíló.
Lesendur þurfa að fá tækifæri til að njóta hans.
```

output - tsv file

```
Ég held að það sé ekki rétt orð, þetta komi ekkert almanakinu við.	~ j ɛː ɣ	h ɛ l t	aː ð	θ aː ð	s j ɛː	ɛ h c ɪ	r j ɛ h t	ɔ r ð	θ ɛ h t a	kʰ ɔː m ɪ	ɛ h c ɛ r̥ t	a l m a n aː c ɪ n ʏ	v ɪː ð ~
Fréttirnar eru sko aldeilis dæmalausar.	~ f r j ɛ h t ɪ t n a r	ɛː r ʏ	s k ɔ	a l t ei l ɪ s	t aiː m a l œyː s a r ~
Það var miði í póstkassanum.	~ θ aː ð	v aː r	m ɪː ð ɪ	iː	pʰ ou s t k a s a n ʏ m ~
Hann glennti fætur hennar í sundur og reyndi að þrengja sér inn í hárlaust skaut hennar.	~ h a n	k l ɛ n̥ t ɪ	f aiː t ʏ r	h ɛ n a r	iː	s ʏ n t ʏ r	ɔː ɣ	r ei n t ɪ	aː ð	θ r ei ɲ c a	s j ɛː r	ɪ n	iː	h au r l œy s t	s k œyː t	h ɛ n a r ~
Ég tel að þetta sé óskaplega mikil sóun á mannauði hjá einni þjóð.	~ j ɛː ɣ	tʰ ɛː l	aː ð	θ ɛ h t a	s j ɛː	ouː s k a p l ɛ ɣ a	m ɪː c ɪ l	s ouː ʏ n	auː	m a n œy ð ɪ	ç au	ei t n ɪ	θ j ouː ð ~
Yfirverkfræðingur hjá Reykjavíkurborg segir að sökin liggi hjá ökumönnum.	~ ɪː v ɪ r v ɛ r̥ k f r ai ð i ŋ k ʏ r	ç au	r eiː c a v iː k ʏ r p ɔ r k	s ei j ɪ r	aː ð	s œː c ɪ n	l ɪ c ɪ	ç au	œː k ʏ m œ n ʏ m ~
Og nú átti sem sagt að hafa sama háttinn á gagnvart stúdentum hér við Háskólann.	~ ɔː ɣ	n uː	au h t ɪ	s ɛː m	s a x t	aː ð	h aː v a	s aː m a	h au h t ɪ n	auː	k a k v a r̥ t	s t uː t ɛ n̥ t ʏ m	ç ɛː r	v ɪː ð	h auː s k ou l a n ~
Bæði almennt og sérstakt veiðigjald er lagt flatt sem föst krónutala á þorskígildiskíló.	~ p aiː ð ɪ	a l m ɛ n̥ t	ɔː ɣ	s j ɛ r̥ s t a x t	v eiː ð ɪ c a l t	ɛ r	l a x t	f l a h t	s ɛː m	f œ s t	kʰ r ouː n ʏ tʰ aː l a	auː	θ ɔ r̥ s c i c ɪ l t ɪ s c i l ou ~
Lesendur þurfa að fá tækifæri til að njóta hans.	~ l ɛː s ɛ n t ʏ r	θ ʏ r v a	aː ð	f auː	tʰ aiː c ɪ f aiː r ɪ	tʰ ɪː l	aː ð	n j ouː t a	h a n s ~
```

## [rkjaran/g2p-service](https://github.com/rkjaran/g2p-service)
#### Type
sequitur wrapper

The endpoint is IPA but the repo is just whatever model type you put in.
#### Location
It doesn't come with a model but there's an endpoint:
[https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron/derp](https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron/derp)
#### Dependencies
Install via dockerfile
#### Usage
#### Example

single word
```
$ curl -XGET https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron/derp | jq
[
  {
    "results": [
      {
        "posterior": 0.9138450652404999,
        "pronunciation": "t ɛ r̥ p"
      }
    ],
    "word": "derp"
  }
]
```

Multiple word support with a POST.

    $ cat <<EOF | curl -XPOST -d@- https://nlp.talgreinir.is/pron | jq
    {"words": ["herp", "derp"]}
    EOF
    [
      {
        "results": [
          {
            "posterior": 0.9251423160703962,
            "pronunciation": "h ɛ r̥ p"
          }
        ],
        "word": "herp"
      },
      {
        "results": [
          {
            "posterior": 0.9138450652404999,
            "pronunciation": "t ɛ r̥ p"
          }
        ],
        "word": "derp"
      }
    ]

Append `?t=tsv` to get the response in the Kaldi lexicon format.

`Hasler	1.0	h a s t l ɛ r`

## [grammatek/g2p-thrax](https://github.com/grammatek/g2p-thrax)
#### Type
thrax - rule based
SAMPA
#### Location
need to build it yourself from the repo
#### Dependencies:
Thrax and OpenFST
#### Usage
It's a good idea to put thraxg2p in your path so you can use it from anywhere.
This uses x_sampa which means it's a one to one mapping of IPA to a ASCII only
transcription
#### Example
If you are getting the phonemes interactively from the project root directory,
```
$./build/thraxg2p --far=grammars/g2p.far
Input string: orð
Output string:  O r D
```

You can also pipe it in through stdin.

Doing file input and output
```
./build/thraxg2p --far=grammars/g2p.far --indir=temp \
 --word_file=temp/test.txt > temp/out/test.tsv
```

input file
```
derp
orð
```

output file
```
derp	t E r_0 p
orð	O r D
```

## [althingi/s5](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/kaldi/tree/master/egs/althingi/s5)
#### Type
sequitur
IPA
#### Location
There are no public models but you can contact [lvl.ru.is](https://lvl.ru.is/)
if you would like a copy.

terra:/models/althingi
#### Dependencies:
sequitur-g2p
#### Usage
It's best to use this only for ASR, not TTS because it's not precise enough.

train a g2p model with
[local/train_g2p.sh](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/kaldi/blob/master/egs/althingi/s5/local/train_g2p.sh)

transcribe words with
[local/transcribe_g2p.sh](https://github.com/cadia-lvl/kaldi/blob/master/egs/althingi/s5/local/transcribe_g2p.sh)
#### Example
transcribing words
```
$ srun ./local/transcribe_g2p.sh /models/g2p/sequitur/althingi/g2p.mdl \
 temp/g2p_words.txt
derp	t ɛː r p
orð	ɔ r ð
stack usage:  200

```


## Template
Here's a template for adding new Icelandic g2p repos.
```
## repo link
#### Type
#### Location
#### Dependencies:
#### Usage
#### Example

input

output
```
